---
date: 2023-05-15
title: Enhanced Audit Log, Data Export, Organization-Wide Tagging & more!
description: Conduktor version 1.15.0 is now available, introducing various new features and optimizations.
solutions: console
tags: features,fix
---

Conduktor version 1.15.0 is now available, introducing various new features and optimizations. This release brings an enhanced Audit experience to Enterprise customers, data export functionality into Console, and organization-wide tagging of resources. See the full list of changes and release notes below.

Pull the latest version now:

```bash
docker pull conduktor/conduktor-platform:latest
```

## Important changes ❗

- Note that in 1.15.0, the Testing application will no longer be started by default in the on-premise deployment. This provides a performance optimization for those customers that are not currently using Testing. If you wish to start Testing alongside Conduktor, you should set an explicit environment variable. See the [documentation](https://docs.conduktor.io/platform/get-started/support/important-notices/#important-change-when-updating-to-conduktor-1150-may-15-2023) for more information.

## Features ✨

Give us feedback via our [public roadmap](https://product.conduktor.help/)

- **Admin**

  - Audit Log has been completely revamped and enriched. Events now contain relevant contextual information (upon click), and logs can now be filtered by a range of criteria (user, resource type, resource name, event, cluster and date).

- **Console**
  <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
  - Tags are now organization-wide, meaning visibility of this additional metadata is shared amongst colleagues in your organization. See the [docs](https://docs.conduktor.io/platform/console/features/tagging/) for more information.
  - You can now export data in either CSV or JSON format via the Consumer view. See the [docs](https://docs.conduktor.io/platform/console/features/browse-data/#exporting-data) for information on how.
  - When using multiple JS filters in the Consumer view, these are now combined with logical AND instead of OR.
  - New experience for showing statistics on each resource that enables more of the screen to be used for displaying data.
  - Cluster selection RBAC: Visibility of clusters that can be selected now depends on the users data permissions applied through RBAC.
  <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
- **Testing**

  - Testing is now disabled by default when starting Conduktor. To start Testing alongside Conduktor, you should set an explicit environment variable. See the [documentation](https://docs.conduktor.io/platform/get-started/support/important-notices/#important-change-when-updating-to-conduktor-1150-may-15-2023) for more information.

- **Monitoring**

  - All monitoring metrics are now provided without any agent dependencies. See the previous [release notes](https://docs.conduktor.io/platform/get-started/support/important-notices/#monitoring-is-changing-january-27-2023) for more information.

## Fix 🔨

- **Platform**

  - CVEs fixes

- **Console**

  - Support negative lag in consumer groups (cases whereby the last committed offset is greater than the latest offset)
  - Security fix to stop exposing cluster configuration inside the UI.

- **Monitoring**

  - Computation of URP metric is set to 0 if we find `confluent.log.placement.constraints` in the cluster config or `confluent.placement.constraints` in the topic config. This avoids raising a false positive alert in case of a multi-region Confluent cluster. Note this logic will also be applied in Console in the next release.

- **Governance**

  - Do not show error toast in Data Masking when a user/group no longer exists in a policy.

- **Admin**

  - Accept "/" character in consumer group name
